Let's walk through a scenario for defense in depth
and see what layers we can identify that will need addressing.
Put your thinking cap on and let's get to it.
It's natural to focus on big picture
when it comes to defense in depth and layered security.
So for this scenario,
let's drill in a little deeper.
We're looking at a typical web server.
It is open to the public Internet and it does manage some customer information.
What are several things that come to mind that will need addressing?
We know that being a web server open to the Internet,
traffic to it should be restricted to
just Internet-related ports such as 80 in 443 and the firewall.
This would be an excellent opportunity to use the host based firewall as well.
Depending on whether it is Windows or Linux,
we could disable unnecessary services or daemons.
Check the permissions on all accounts, files,
and directories required using the principle of least privilege.
Determine if the machine has the proper patches installed.
Every website has a database.
Is the connection secure and are
the account's privileges appropriate for the needed access?
Are the files and disks encrypted on the server as well as the database?
Is monitoring enabled to alert on anomalies as well as performance issues?
As you can see at just a cursory glance,
we came up with eight layers of security for a single web host.
Take your time, take good notes,
and you will be implementing defense in depth
in your own organization before you know it.